README.md, before:

# Video Object Detection Project

This project implements object detection on video using a React frontend and a Flask backend, leveraging the YOLOv11 model. It allows users to upload a video, select a YOLOv11 model, and visualize object detection bounding boxes on the video.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Python 3.10**
- **Node.js and npm**
- **Git** (for cloning the repository)

For Nvidia GPU

- **cuDNN**
- **PyTorch** with CUDA support

## Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/realvoidgojo/VideoAnalytics-OSINT
    cd VideoAnalytics-OSINT
    ```

2.  **Backend Setup (Flask):**

    - Create a virtual environment (recommended):

      ```
      python -m venv venv
      # Activate the virtual environment:
      # On Windows:
      venv\Scripts\activate
      # On macOS and Linux:
      source venv/bin/activate
      ```

    - Install the required Python packages:

      ```
      pip install flask flask-cors opencv-python ultralytics Pillow
      ```

    For Nvidia GPU CUDA Support , if you already have `pytorch` then `pip uninstall torch torchvision torchaudio`

    ```
    pip install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu126
    ```

    (Replace cu126 with your CUDA version, e.g., cu126 for CUDA 12.6)

    - **Download YOLOv11 Models:** Create a directory named `models` in your backend directory. Download the desired YOLOv11 models (e.g., `yolov11n.pt`, `yolov11s.pt`, etc.) from the [official YOLOv11 repository](https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics) or the [Ultralytics website](https://ultralytics.com/) and place them in the `models` directory.

    - **Set up the `data` directory:** Create an empty directory named `data` in your backend directory. This is where uploaded videos will be temporarily stored.

3.  **Frontend Setup (React + Vite):**

    - Navigate to the frontend directory:

      ```
      cd frontend
      ```

    - Install the required Node.js packages:

      ```
      npm install
      ```

## Configuration

- **Backend (Flask):**

  - Ensure that the paths to the YOLOv11 models in your `object_detection.py` file are correct, relative to the location of your `app.py` file. The default path is `./models/yolov11n.pt`.

- **Frontend (React):**

  - In `VideoDisplay.js`, verify that the `axios.post` URL (`http://localhost:5000/process_video`) matches the address where your Flask backend will be running.

## Running the Application

1.  **Start the Flask backend:**

    - From the backend directory, run:

      ```
      python app.py
      ```

    - Note the address the Flask app is running on (e.g., `http://127.0.0.1:5000`).

2.  **Start the React frontend:**

    - From the frontend directory, run:

      ```
      npm run dev
      ```

    - The React app should open in your browser (usually at `http://localhost:3000`).

## Usage

1.  **Upload Video:** In the React app, use the "Choose File" button to upload a video file.

2.  **Select YOLOv11 Model:** Use the dropdown menu to select the desired YOLOv11 model for object detection.

3.  **View Detections:** The video will play, and the object detection bounding boxes will be displayed on top of the video.

## Project Structure

```
video-object-detection-project/
│    app.py      # Main Flask application file
│   src/        # Directory for source code
│   ├── video_processing.py #Frame extraction and processing
│   └── object_detection.py #YOLOv11 object detection
│   clips/        # Directory for footages
│   models/     # Directory for YOLOv11 models (.pt files)
│   data/       # Directory for temporarily storing uploaded videos
│   venv/       # Python virtual environment
│   test/       # to check dependencies are working
├── frontend/       # React frontend
│   ├── src/        # React source code
│   │   └── components/
│   │       └── VideoDisplay.jsx # Main component for video display and object detection
│   ├── public/     # Static assets
│   └── node_modules/ # Node.js dependencies
├── README.md       # This file
```

## Troubleshooting

- **CORS Errors:** If you encounter Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) errors in your browser's console, make sure that you have correctly enabled CORS in your Flask app using the `flask_cors` library.

- **Model Not Found Errors:** If the YOLOv11 model cannot be found, double-check that the path to the model file in `object_detection.py` is correct and that the model file exists in the specified location.

- **Video Not Playing:** If the video is not playing in the React app, make sure that the video file is a supported format and that the `videoSource` state variable is correctly set.

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6676dffa-0451-43ef-a0bf-6a1b65836654

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit pull requests or open issues to suggest improvements or report bugs.

Commit message:

Updates LFS filter for models and video files
Changes the LFS filter for models from "text" to "zip" in order to improve file storage and transfer efficiency. Additionally, modifies the LFS filter for video files to "-video" for consistency and clarity.

Fixes #N/A

README.md, after:

# Video Object Detection Project

This project implements object detection on video using a React frontend and a Flask backend, leveraging the YOLOv11 model. It allows users to upload a video, select a YOLOv11 model, and visualize object detection bounding boxes on the video.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Python 3.10**
- **Node.js and npm**
- **Git** (for cloning the repository)

For Nvidia GPU

- **cuDNN**
- **PyTorch** with CUDA support

## Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/realvoidgojo/VideoAnalytics-OSINT
    cd VideoAnalytics-OSINT
    ```

2.  **Backend Setup (Flask):**

    - Create a virtual environment (recommended):

      ```
      python -m venv venv
      # Activate the virtual environment:
      # On Windows:
      venv\Scripts\activate
      # On macOS and Linux:
      source venv/bin/activate
      ```

    - Install the required Python packages:

      ```
      pip install flask flask-cors opencv-python ultralytics Pillow
      ```

    For Nvidia GPU CUDA Support , if you already have `pytorch` then `pip uninstall torch torchvision torchaudio`

    ```
    pip install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu126
    ```

    (Replace cu126 with your CUDA version, e.g., cu126 for CUDA 12.6)

    - **Download YOLOv11 Models:** Create a directory named `models` in your backend directory. Download the desired YOLOv11 models (e.g., `yolov11n.pt`, `yolov11s.pt`, etc.) from the [official YOLOv11 repository](https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics) or the [Ultralytics website](https://ultralytics.com/) and place them in the `models` directory.

    - **Set up the `data` directory:** Create an empty directory named `data` in your backend directory. This is where uploaded videos will be temporarily stored.

3.  **Frontend Setup (React + Vite):**

    - Navigate to the frontend directory:

      ```
      cd frontend
      ```

    - Install the required Node.js packages:

      ```
      npm install
      ```

## Configuration

- **Backend (Flask):**

  - Ensure that the paths to the YOLOv11 models in your `object_detection.py` file are correct, relative to the location of your `app.py` file. The default path is `./models/yolov11n.pt` , ensure the models are not corrupted, or please download from ultralytics and replace with respective path and name.

- **Frontend (React):**

  - In `VideoDisplay.js`, verify that the `axios.post` URL (`http://localhost:5000/process_video`) matches the address where your Flask backend will be running.



## Running the Application

1.  **Start the Flask backend:**

    - From the backend directory, run:

      ```
      python app.py
      ```

    - Note the address the Flask app is running on (e.g., `http://127.0.0.1:5000`).

2.  **Start the React frontend:**

    - From the frontend directory, run:

      ```
      npm run dev
      ```

    - The React app should open in your browser (usually at `http://localhost:3000`).

## Usage

1.  **Upload Video:** In the React app, use the "Choose File" button to upload a video file.

2.  **Select YOLOv11 Model:** Use the dropdown menu to select the desired YOLOv11 model for object detection.

3.  **View Detections:** The video will play, and the object detection bounding boxes will be displayed on top of the video.

## Project Structure

```
video-object-detection-project/
│    app.py      # Main Flask application file
│   src/        # Directory for source code
│   ├── video_processing.py #Frame extraction and processing
│   └── object_detection.py #YOLOv11 object detection
│   clips/        # Directory for footages
│   models/     # Directory for YOLOv11 models (.pt files)
│   data/       # Directory for temporarily storing uploaded videos
│   venv/       # Python virtual environment
│   test/       # to check dependencies are working
├── frontend/       # React frontend
│   ├── src/        # React source code
│   │   └── components/
│   │       └── VideoDisplay.jsx # Main component for video display and object detection
│   ├── public/     # Static assets
│   └── node_modules/ # Node.js dependencies
├── README.md       # This file
```

## Troubleshooting

- **CORS Errors:** If you encounter Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) errors in your browser's console, make sure that you have correctly enabled CORS in your Flask app using the `flask_cors` library.

- **Model Not Found Errors:** If the YOLOv11 model cannot be found, double-check that the path to the model file in `object_detection.py` is correct and that the model file exists in the specified location.

- **Video Not Playing:** If the video is not playing in the React app, make sure that the video file is a supported format and that the `videoSource` state variable is correctly set.

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6676dffa-0451-43ef-a0bf-6a1b65836654

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit pull requests or open issues to suggest improvements or report bugs.
